# Node Js Project Folder Structure

```
backend
├── controllers
│   └── basics.js
├── middlewares
│   └── basics.js
├── models
│   └── basics.js
├── routes
│   └── basics.js
├── .env
├── server.js
└── package.json
```

## `server.js`

- server js is the main file of your backend application this is where node looks when you start your application. It has all the routes of your application, In this file you start your server, connect to your database and do server configuaration. You can name this file anything like app.js, index.js I like to name it server.js because it’s relatable.

## `routes/`

- This folder has all your routes which you are going to create. You connect your routes to your controllers here.  You can also add middlewares to your routes here. They are like your api routes. You need to import this routes in your server.js file inorder to use.

## `controllers/`

- We don’t write the logic of route in the routes file we seperate them in seperate folder called controllers. We store each route controller in seperate file this makes your code look organised and managed. you need to import these controllers in your routes folder.  

## `middlewares/`

- These folder holds all the middlewares of your backend application like the authentication, authorization or verification middlewares. To apply the middlewares you need to import it into your routes folder.

## `models/`

- This folder contains your database schema and models. You have to design the schema of the model and export  it and then you can use it to read and write to the database. You have to import it in controllers or middlewares.

## `package.json`

- Then we have package.json file generated by node js. this file has all the node js project dependencies if you ever delete your node modules than you can use npm install to install them back node will look into package.json for required modules.

## `node_modules/`

- This is the place where all your installed libraries files go. You never should edit or change any file in the node_modules folder.

## `.env`

- This file stores all your secret keys. You should not push this on github because it contains secret keys of your application.